
## Quantitative Economic Modeling with Data Science Applications

- **Instructor:**
  - Section 2: Peifan Wu, wupeifan@mail.ubc.ca
  - Section 3: Paul Schrimpf, schrimpf@mail.ubc.ca
- **Textbook:** [QuantEcon DataScience](https://datascience.quantecon.org/)


## Course Overview
This is a course introducing the computational and data science tools used in modern economics.

We will apply a programming language (Python) to analyzing these sorts of
data and making numerical calculations/simulations of models in economics.

Classes for Section 2 will be held in-person in [HEBB 114](https://ssc.adm.ubc.ca/classroomservices/function/viewlocation?userEvent=ShowLocation&buildingID=HEBB&roomID=114) on Tuesdays and Thursdays 3:30pm-5:00pm. Classes for Section 3 will be held in-person in [EOS 135](https://ssc.adm.ubc.ca/classroomservices/function/viewlocation?userEvent=ShowLocation&buildingID=EOS&roomID=135) on Mondays and Wednesdays 1:30pm-2:50pm.

For students who cannot
attend in person, class recordings will also be available on Zoom, through
http://canvas.ubc.ca. **Attending class remotely for the whole semester is not allowed.**

Provincial Health Orders and UBC policy now mandate masks in all
indoor public spaces on campus. These spaces include classrooms,
residence halls, libraries, and common areas.

## Course Materials and Communications

All materials will be provided online:
- Class Materials: https://github.com/ubcecon/ECON323_2021_Fall
- Communications, Announcements, Grades, Zoom, Piazza: http://canvas.ubc.ca

## Grading

- Weekly problem sets: 50%
- Final projects: 45%
- Attendance/Participation: 5%

## Topics

We won't be able to cover it all

1. **Python Fundamentals**
  * Introduction to Python
  * Basics
  * Collections
  * Control Flow
  * Functions
2. **Scientific Computing and Economics**
  * Introduction to Numpy Arrays
  * Introduction to Data Visualization in Python
  * Applied Linear Algebra
  * Randomness
  * Optimization
3. **Introduction to Pandas and Data Wrangling**
  * Introduction to Pandas
  * The basics
  * The index
  * Storage formats
  * Data cleaning
  * Reshaping
  * Merging
  * Groupby
  * Time series
  * Introductory Data Visualization

4. **Data Science Case Studies and Tools**

  * Regression
    * Linear Regression
    * Lasso Regression
    * Neural Networks
    * Random Forests
  * Classification
    * K-means
    * Classification Trees
    * Support Vector Machines
  * Data Visualization
    * Core visualization principles
    * Maps
  * Miscellaneous
    * Web scraping
    * Fitting probability distributions
    * Natural language processing

## Schedule

Tentative schedules for [Section 2](schedule2.md) and [Section 3](schedule3.md).

## COVID-19 Safety

You are required to wear a non-medical mask during our class meetings, for your own protection and the safety and comfort of everyone else in the class. For our in-person meetings in this class, it is important that all of us feel as comfortable as possible engaging in class activities while sharing an indoor space. Non-medical masks that cover our noses and mouths are a primary tool for combating the spread of COVID-19. Further, according to the provincial mandate, masks are required in all indoor public spaces including lobbies, hallways, stairwells, elevators, classrooms, and labs. There may be students who have medical accommodations for not wearing a mask. Please maintain a respectful environment. [UBC Respectful Environment Statement](https://hr.ubc.ca/working-ubc/respectful-environment)

## UBC values and policies

UBC provides resources to support student learning and to maintain healthy lifestyles but recognizes that sometimes crises arise and so there are additional resources to access including those for survivors of sexual violence. UBC values respect for the person and ideas of all members of the academic community. Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated nor is suppression of academic freedom. UBC provides appropriate accommodation for students with disabilities and for religious and cultural observances. UBC values academic honesty and students are expected to acknowledge the ideas generated by others and to uphold the highest academic standards in all of their actions. Details of the policies and how to access support are available here (https://senate.ubc.ca/policiesresources-support-student-success)
